>> Evan You: So much for Vuex.
The next exercise,
I wanna sort of just switch gears and
talk about something functional, right?
So if you're familiar with react,
you probably know that react
is in general its ecosystem.
And its community is in general much
more into functional programming.
And Redux is a very good example
of that sort of preference.
because the whole premise of Redux is
that your app state is immutable.
All right, so
if we have an initial state of count: 0.
Similar to how Vuex takes
different mutations,
Redux takes different action types.
And the core concept in redux is
called something called a reducer.
So a reducer is a function that looks
like this, and reducer takes state.
So this is prevState and
action and it does something.
So what it does is the reducer will
return a whole new copy of your
state using the previous state and
the action type.
And because this is just one big function,
right?
So we'll do a big switch statement.
switch (action; {
case 'inc': return {
count= preState.count
+ 1 } And case: 'dec'
: return { count:
prevState.count- 1 }.
And because we have
return statements here,
I'm not going to do the,
there is an extra colon here.
I'm not going to do the break because
the return statement kind of does that
already.
And if it's default, just return
prevState or you can throw an error.
Like on no action type, but
the idea is pretty simple.
You have a previous state and
your next date is always constructed
on top of the previous state,
based on what action type you receive.
So it's very functional because it takes
some arguments who return something new,
and it's not mutating anything in place.
But, in effect, when you apply this
to same management pattern and
achieve the same in effect
in terms of your component.
Where both dispassion and action,
send it to the central store,
something happens to the store,
your state get updated.
Either replace or
mutate it and eventually,
that change is reflected as side effect.
And the side effect, in a front end
app is updates in the DOM, right?
So this is the essence of redux, right?
So we can apply very similar
concepts in a Vue app.
If this is the type of API you prefer.
We can totally do that in Vue as well.
So let's look at our exercise and
look at the desired API.
So this interface in fact inspired from,
so
this kind of combined influence from
redux and a few other libraries.
There is a library called Hyperapp, which
exposes almost exactly this interface.
And I believe also looks
very similar to this.
But the idea is,
you sorta have this model,
which is the same as state.
And you have possible actions.
And each of these actions take,
so these actions,
essentially receive the previous
state as the argument and
they return the next state.
So instead of switch statement, we still
break them into separate functions.
But all of them receive your state as the
argument and returns the next new state.
And your view is,
a function that you see three arguments.
The h is our random function argument,
and then there's model.
It's directly passed into
your random function, and
your actions are also passed
into the random functions.
So everything is passed,
into your function as arguments.
This is like as functional as it can get.
[LAUGH] And what you need to do, when you
need state you reference it on the model.
When you need things to change you
trigger functions on your action, right?
So here you can see that we're passing, so
this is the syntax for
handling events in renofunctions.
You use the on nested under
your data object, and
inside that you do {on: { click and
passing the function to call,
when the button is clicked.
>> Evan You: Eventually,
this is what we want to achieve.
Really, the whole exercise is about,
given a desired API,
how do you use existing
primitive to present that API?
To create something that
satisfies that API.
And this is in fact,
totally feasible within the context.
And if you look at
the reference implementation,
it can be as short as
down to 12 lines of code.